Are you in the process of building out
your sales team? For me, this was the
hardest part about building my agency.
I'd always been good at lead generation
and fulfillment and fairly good at sales
personally, but building out a sales
team was a big obstacle for me while I
was scaling up. And for context, we
currently have a 75 person USA based
sales team and book about 600 calls per
week. So, in this video, I'm going to
teach you three things. The first is
what our sales team looks like. The
second is how to design a sales process.
And three, I'm going to sprinkle in the
three biggest lessons that took me from
a fivep person team to a 75 person team
at my agency. So to start, let's break
down the structure and makeup of our
sales team and include one of the three
big lessons while we do it. So one of
the three big lessons that I learned is
that for every closer, you're going to
want two setters. Whether these are
outbound setters or inbound setters is
going to primarily be determined if your
main traffic source is ads and content
or cold outreach. If it's outreach, they
should be outbound setters. If it is
paid ads or content, they should be
inbound setters. So the outbound setters
should be cold emailing, cold DMing,
cold calling, all that kind of stuff.
The inbound setter should be confirming
appointments, texting people and phoning
them as fast as possible and calling old
leads in the pipeline who either did not
book a call at all or did not show up.
Once those inbound setters have gone
through all of their inbound leads on a
given day, they should begin outbound
setting. And I like to have all my
setters inbound and outbound do one hour
of prospecting to start their day, no
matter what, to start building pipeline.
So, if you listen to this and you can do
basic math, you'll be quickly able to
decipher that we have about 25 full-time
closers and 50 full-time setters at our
call centers. Two setters for one
closer. Since we primarily use paid ads
as our traffic source and then outreach
is second and then content, most of them
are inbound centers. Our content is used
more so to nurture leads who find out
about us through ads and outreach than
it is to actually get leads on its own.
Although our content will probably be
better than 99% of agencies and makes up
less than 1% of our call volume. At our
agency, I aim to have every closer take
five calls per day with the ability to
go up to eight. The reason for that is
if you book more calls per closer than
this, you're too reliant on each closer
and if they quit or do something, you're
caught scrambling. And more than eight
calls, they get very tired and don't
take any calls as seriously. All of my
closers have selling stuff that is high
LTV, so they don't require that many
calls, which is great. So, that's enough
about me. How do you build a sales team
on your own? And what is the process
look like? Because it sounds easy enough
when it's spelled out in front of you,
but I don't think most people do a good
job of utilizing their setters or
closers correctly. And that brings me to
the second lesson. And the second lesson
is that you have to figure out how to
set on every platform yourself and close
both inbound and outbound sales calls
before you ever hire a setter or closer
to do it for you. No one is going to
figure it out for you. How could they?
It's just a very unrealistic
expectation. Yet almost everyone does
it. Why would a setter that you pay $500
per month and then maybe $100 per call
be able to figure out your entire sales
process for you? You hear that kind of
crap all the time, but it doesn't make
any logical sense. I was talking to a
client who paid me for a consulting call
recently, and on the call, it's like,
"Oh, yeah, we had a marketing girl as
our intern during the summer. She
couldn't even figure out our paid ads."
So, it's not just closing, it's
everything. Why would a 22-year-old
presumably girl straight out of
university or at her summer co-op be
able to figure out the paid advertising
strategy of a $40 million manufacturing
company, right? Unfortunately, people do
this all the time in every area, but
especially with their sales team. So,
here's what I recommend. You have to
figure out an outbound setting process
that works on every platform. So,
Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter,
cold email, cold call, cold DM, you name
it. The key word there is you. You. Not
someone else. Not your setter, not an
employee. You, the founder or maybe the
CMO in some cases or the CRO in some
cases, but it should be you. You have to
do this yourself manually and then keep
doing it and keep improving it until
until you are able to book consistent
meetings. The process he used for each
platform might be slightly different,
but they're all more or less the same.
So if you figure out Instagram for
example, you're going to be figuring out
LinkedIn and Twitter and Facebook, etc.
If you need to, you can replicate it and
tailor it to each platform. Once you do,
you should record yourself via loom of
an hour of doing it and then transcribe
that loom and turn it into a checklist
or SOP and then a one pager. So what you
want to do when you hire a setter is you
do this for an hour on Zoom in front of
them. Show them what to do. Then have
the setter do it for an hour on Zoom in
front of you. If they are able to
replicate the process properly, finding
the people, messaging them, responding,
then congratulations, you have just
trained an outbound setter and you can
replicate this process over and over and
scale to more setters. And maybe
eventually you might have a head of
setters who recruits and trains new ones
for you on each platform. So that is the
outbound setting process. But what about
the inbound setting? And this is where
it's different in my view. I've tried
everything and I think that you have to
have an inbound centralized setting
process. So the nice thing about
learning to do the outbound setting
first is that it's infinitely harder
than inbound setting. When you're
inbound setting, they're coming to you.
They know who you are. They've indicated
that they are interested by doing
something. They're filling out a form,
DMing you, booking a call or whatever
action. That is much different
dynamic-wise than outbound setting
because when you're outbound setting,
they have no idea who you are. Probably
not interested in any way. Just takes a
lot more skill to do. So, one of the key
differences is the outbound setting and
the inbound setting. Is outbound
setting, you're going to have a bunch of
people working somewhat independently.
It's good if you can export a huge list
and then break it up so everybody gets a
thousand contacts, for example, so
there's no overlap. But even if you get
that perfectly, there's not much
coordination or cohesion in an outbound
team. And that's the opposite of what
your inbound team should be with your
inbound team. You should completely
centralize it. So all inbound leads goes
through the same application form. A use
case is you split up the form so you
have one form for every source. So you
can separate the metrics. that's very
valid but should be centralized. Then
all qualified applicants book on the
same calendar and that calendar
distributes meetings in a roundrobin
format to your closers. The process here
is a bit different but we're going to go
through that as part of the overall
sales process in a few minutes in this
video. But before we do that, we must
focus on the third of the three lessons.
And this one might be the most important
of all. and that is in your sales team.
Do not try to make each sales rep 50%
better. Focus all of that time and
effort on making it 50% easier to sell
by having a better sales system. A very
popular saying is that a rising tide
lifts all ships. And that is especially
true when it comes to your sales tree.
Especially as the team grows, you're
going to be hiring less and less
qualified closers. And that's true in
any role, but especially when it comes
to sales. There's so many only so many A
players and there's more spots
eventually than there are total A
players just supply and demand. So
instead of trying to turn B players and
C players into A players one at a time,
it's better to instead focus on
improving your process. So what does
that look like? I'm going to go over
this from top to bottom with what we do
and what has worked best for us. And I'm
just going to do that as simply as
possible. But before you absorb what I'm
about to tell you, try to resist the
urge to instantly think, well, I already
have that, like you and I are enemies or
you're trying to get me or something.
Many people have many things that's
true, but most people don't do them
right. A toddler holding a baseball bat
has a baseball bat, but not in the same
way that a major league baseball player
has a baseball bat. This is often the
case with people in their sales process
and other parts of their business, and
it's really frustrating to act as a
consultant to those people. How you use
each tool in the sales process matters a
lot. So, I'd recommend using it the same
way that I'm describing it to the best
of your ability. Using these tools and
processes and succeeding with them is
going to act as a better form of social
proof than me just going on a
thousandhour video telling you how great
it is. The intent of the lead first of
all matters a lot. So a lot of people
just book meetings however they can.
Most of their messaging and their offers
are usually unintentionally on the
beginner side. And as such the leads
that come in are much lower intent than
what they would like to be. Most people
can sense that this is happening but
they just can't quite put a finger on it
and articulate the problem properly in
your sales process. So if you think this
is a problem and you are doing
everything right and it's still not
clicking and you don't know what's
wrong, that's probably it. So this
phenomenon happens in many areas of
business and life. The easiest way to
reduce your churn is to not do any of
the tricks or hacks or even improve your
service. It's to work with richer, more
qualified clients that are going to
succeed with or without you. They're
just less likely to churn. The easiest
way to ensure you don't get divorced is
to just ensure that you attract and have
a better spouse, right? Less likely to
get divorced. The easiest way to ensure
that you have great community and social
circle is just to have better friends.
That might sound like really stupid
advice to the uninitiated person who
does not understand what I'm saying, but
it's extremely important and extremely
profound. The easiest way to improve
your sales process in this case is to
attract better higher intent leads and
you do that with your messaging. So
whether that is with paid ads, whether
that's with content or outreach, higher
level and better messaging equals higher
level and better leads that are more
likely to convert. So in practice, this
usually means video ads, VSSL types with
a big banner at the top talking about
the problems, outcomes, and
circumstances that your target market
faces. Then presenting your offer as the
solution and telling them the next step.
It's pretty simple. It's usually going
to be booking a call. The next thing you
want is to have a good pre-all flow that
hits them from every angle. So between
the time they book a call and the call
actually taking place or happening, you
should be absolutely blasting them with
information on every platform. A great
way to describe this from Jeremy Haynes
that I like is the reason that people
don't show up to the call is because
there is a deficit of information. These
people booked a call with you because
they're interested at least to some
degree. They want to get more
information. If you blast them with all
the information they need before the
call, they're more likely to show up.
they will be much further along in the
sales process during the call. So that
can be more about answering questions
and closing than it is explaining how it
works and breaking self-limiting
beliefs. So what does that actually look
like in practice? What are the
components? So email, one email every 4
hours for 72 hours for 16 in total. Each
email focuses on one of the main
objections and completely destroys it
and overcomes it using stories,
examples, insights, pointing to case
studies so that individual objection is
no longer in the way or no longer
exists. The next is retargeting ads. So
turn all of those emails into 30 to
60sec videos that basically is the video
version and run them as retargeting ads
on every platform. Facebook, Instagram,
Messenger, audience network, Google
Display, YouTube, Tik Tok, anything you
can do, LinkedIn, you want to blast them
and ensure that they see these ads 30 to
50 times before the call because that
means they'll see the ads so many times
and every single objection is going to
be taken care of. The next thing is on
the thank you page, create a VSSL that
is essentially a one-sided sales call
of, you know, what you're going to be
doing and run through the offer
presentation just like you would on the
sales call. That's going to let them
know ahead of time everything they need
to know. And then on this page, tell
them to accept the calendar invite. And
then have three to five different videos
on this page that basically are longer
versions of overcoming the three to five
biggest objections and completely
destroying them just like that. The next
is a quick win. when they book a call on
the thank you page and usually by SMS
and email, you should give them an asset
or something that has its own
instructions that takes maybe five to 10
minutes of work to set up but actually
makes a tangible difference. So, if they
do this quick win between the time they
book and the time the call takes place,
you'll have essentially sold them. It's
like a free trial of your service. If
they were on the fence before, they're
definitely in no. The final thing you
want to do is actually pick up your
phone and record a selfie of you talking
to them, saying their name, talking
about their business, making sure that
they know it's unique. Voice notes fine,
too, but either are good, but that will
start building rapport before the call.
So, if you know those five things, you
will notice that your show rate goes up
by 50%. And sometimes, more importantly,
the call goes up two times better, four
times better, six times better in terms
of quality. It's just amazing. The next
is pre-all research. So the morning of
the call, your closer should be
researching each of their meetings for
the day. And you can have an AI tool
that speeds that up. And they should be
reaching out to each product, like
prospect to number one, confirm the
appointment with hopefully a selfie
video or a voice note. And then two,
send them any relevant information and
case studies that have to do with their
specific business. So doing 10 minutes
of research before the call will
sometimes double your close rate. You'll
make them feel special, like you
actually care, and because you did
research, you will be more confident.
So, don't let anyone on your team skip
the pre-all research. Make them be
professional. The next is a one-pager
plan for the sales call. And I don't
believe in word for word scripts
whatsoever. They sound whack as hell
when you're on the receiving end of
them, and it sends the wrong message to
your team. You're not hiring robots,
you're hiring people. The difference
between robots and people is that people
have a soul. And you're going to see
that as AI gets better and better.
Instead, everyone should have a one
pager that is based on what the most
successful sales calls have in common
with actual data and actual call
recordings. It should be a bullet point
and they should have the person stay on
track as much as possible. If they go
off track, they should come back. If you
ever heard of Jordan Belelffort's
straight line selling system, who's the
Wall Street guy? It's kind of like that,
but I changed the rest of the process
significantly to tailor it to my
business. So, our one pager goes
something like this. The intro line, the
first five questions to ask, the thing
to say to transition to the sales
presentation, the sales presentation,
the transition to the objection handling
phase, which is, how much do you like
this on a scale of 1 to 10? Seven. Okay,
why seven? They're going to tell you.
And then you go into the objection
handling phase. Then we list out the top
12 or so objections and their answers,
the top five ways to transition to the
close, the next steps, and then how to
conclude the call, which is mostly just
hyping them up. It's the closer's job to
follow this plan and bring the
conversation back to these points as
fast as possible while of course fully
finishing the prospect's thought or
answering their question. And the final
part here in my view is centralized
follow-up. and the keyword is
centralized cuz it would be nice, but
I've never been able to get my closers
or sales team to systematically follow
up in a way that is 100% consistent in
any of my businesses. And at this point,
I've really stopped trying as I don't
think it's possible. And instead, I just
have a centralized follow-up system. For
all for what we do for follow-up, I
follow a specific process that I read in
one of Alex's emails. It goes something
like this. So for the first every day
for the first three days after the sales
call I follow up. The first day I send
the biggest case study in terms of
dollar value. The second I send the
biggest case study in terms of
percentage gain. And in the third day I
send my biggest industry insight. The
following week, Monday, Wednesday,
Friday, I send three total emails. So on
Monday I send an email addressing the
biggest FAQ or objection. On Wednesday
the second biggest and on Friday the
third biggest. And then I follow up for
30 more days twice per week on Mondays
and Thursdays. On Mondays, I send a case
study email. On Thursdays, I send an
email going over a specific industry
insight. And that's the process from
start to finish. So, how would you apply
what I taught? I think the nice thing
about this is it's a foundational
system. That means that you should and
could use this whether you are one
closer or 25 or even a thousand. The
process is the same and we're setting
them up for success. We're making it
easier to sell instead of trying to get
them better at sales. We are plugging
people into an overall system instead of
running around trying to manage 25
different ways of selling. In my
opinion, that is the key to success if
you're building a sales team. After you
book about 25 calls per week for 4
weeks, you should hire your first
closer, then replicate that process. At
50 calls, time for a second closer. at
75 time for a third and so on. That's
really all it takes. If you would like
my help with your sales process or
building your sales team, you could
always book a call with Lead Generation
Academy, which is my consulting offer,
and I will see if you qualify. So,
thanks for watching and I'll see you in
the next